An Almanac, My Almanac

Government is responsible for the body of the collective. Religion is responsible for the mind of the collective.

Home is not defined by the four walls and ceiling that make the house, it's defined by the love between the people living within it.

I belong to a private sect. It doesn't have a name, as there is only one member. It's a combination of Buddhism, Christianity, and Einstein's Theory of Relativity.

I am against the death penalty because it is only supported by our baser human instincts, not by any moral code or sense of justice.

Affirmative action is an effect of our society misappropriating power to bigotry. Many in the elite have disguised their racism as an effort towards natural order, when really their efforts contribute to a systematic disproportion in the socioeconomic classes of minorities.

I do not trust any person alive on the subject of the afterlife, anymore than I trust a man yet to approach the finish line on the subject of winning a race.

Heaven isn't for the dead, it's for the living. The thought of heaven has healing powers in a time of loss.

Hell is a place in the mind.

Education is the most transformative practice a person can dedicate their time to.

A man is insane if he talks to himself, but only if while in the company of others. For a man in his own world could not be considered insane.

Physics and religious philosophy are both collections of theories meant to answer the same questions:
• Why are we here?
• How do we work?
• What should I do?
The two can, actually, MUST exist together in the same mind.

If the church is the only thing that keeps you from hitting a person over the head with a wooden mallet -> good church, bad you. If the church incites violence towards those of different lifestyles causing you to believe hitting a person over the head is the right thing to do -> questionable you, bad church. It is up to us, up to society, to tell the difference and cast out the bad churches. That is our only opportunity for peace.

Contrary to popular belief, action is not the enemy of thought, but they often happen in the wrong order.

Thought is not a Point, it is a path. A path that can often lead to opposite destinations in the same direction.

Does God prevent us from understanding ourselves? I don't mean: Is there a divine presence intervening along our path to self-awareness? I mean: Does thinking of God, does perceiving ourselves as speaking to God prevent us from identifying the complexities and originalities of our self-consciousness?

I think people often put too much weight on the Constitution. Obviously, it serves as the basis for our personal freedoms as Americans so it is very important. But so many believe it should never be amended, as if men who lived 240 years ago know better how we should live now than those who live now.

Early on in a country's life, businesses need things that only a bigger government can provide, sich as infrastructure development, a currency, and tariffs. Once these things are in place, a small, hands-ff government become better for business.

Human beings are wrong about robots in the future, in the same way they were wrong about God in the past. Robots will not be humanoid.

Most important points of a modern political ideology:
• Removing corruption from the political system first by imposing strong regulations on corporate lobbying.
• Disallowing corporate subsidies for those that seek assistance during economic turmoil. Preventing need for bailouts, when the American people see little benefit.
• Removing systematic prejudice based on race or lifestyle.
• Efforts towards clean, renewable energy.
• Net neutrality.

You would never consider a thinking mas as one who thought something one moment, and without reason, other than for the simple sake of being, thought the same thing the next.

History shows us the best way to orchestrate progress is through the government, as it's motives should always reflect the good of the people.

Theoretical physics goes in circles. But the heirs to the brilliant Ionian scientists and the Ancient Greek philosophers and mathematicians are modern theoretical physicists. And I think if we really want reason for our existence, that's where we'll find it. And if we don't, I think it's still nice to carry out the work of brilliant people as best we can.

What if atoms had thoughts? What if those micro-galaxies quantum mechanics understands is at the source of how atoms act and react are really a type of neural network firing off electrical charges that could be interpreted as thought, or even judgment? Is that also at the root of uncertainty?

The first step to learning something new is confessing your ignorance on the subject.

Education is free, you pay for a network.

The nature of thinking is to change one's opinion. I'm allowed to change my opinion because I am allowed to think.

We find it easy to go back 2,000 years to see how we are divided, but we fear going back further to discover how we are all connected.

A bright future is only imaginable by bright minds.

Looking at a great work of art will offer you a better reflection of yourself than looking at a mirror.

What separates man from beast? Empathy. A conscience strong enough to sacrifice oneself for another.

The world doesn't just allow for harmony, it asks for harmony by allowing us to operate within its bounds.

Don't give up the rights of your neighbor for a false sense of security.

Bees are more organized than humans. Humans have to speak and organize to build things. Bees, without prior planning can build the perfect honeycomb.

Opposition should not be feared unless it is a hindrance of progress. Sadly, today in America, opinions are held to stronger than principles and it is dividing our country rather than allowing us to learn from differences in opinion.
