Interpretations and Misinterpretations

In response to a Christian woman saying, "I don't believe God is a man or a woman, God is just God."

Genesis 2:18 Then the Lord God said, "It is not good that the man should be alone; I will make him a helper fit for him." ... Genesis 2:21 So the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man, and while he slept took one of his ribs and closed up its place with flesh. Genesis 2:22 And the rib that the Lord God had taken from the man he made into a woman and brought her to the man.

This interpretation of The Creation of Man and Woman seems to say that God made a man in his image, and made the woman as a companion. Therefore, Adam, the man, is in the image of God. Eve was realized as a complement to man.

If you see a flaw in the fundamental idea regarding not only the creation of Man, but it's very existence, why interpret only one piece of the book differently. Why not make your own judgments regarding the entire collective stories? Why not allow yourself to break free from the chains the title of "Christian" places on you? Why not read the Bible as an outsider, as someone who is not blindly held to the beliefs by guilt or fear?

My point is, to develop a belief system on creation and the "how" of our existence, if the ideas presented in the book are not inline with your preconception or interpretation, why not build your ideas based on observable science? Read Einstein's Theory of Relativity and Hawking's Brief History of Time to develop a better understanding of makes us "us" and how we came to be. Why not develop our moral compass based on situations we witness? Because in the age of information we witness everything that happens without much effort in attention. People look to a very old (and as a collective work, outdated) book to guide our views, when all we really need to do is mindfully exit our front door to develop a relevant understanding of our society and how different cultures impact it, then look at a mirror after our opinions are realized to seek comfort in how we feel about our society.
