i really don't care what celebrities say, but i love me some McConaughey. i've never seen him be anything other than a caring human being and someone who likes to philosophize on all areas of life.

“It’s a very dynamic and as divisive of an inauguration and time that we’ve ever had." "At the same time, it’s time for us to embrace, shake hands with this fact and be constructive with him over the next four years.”

i follow every single news network i know to on facebook. every single one posted about this, and this headline is the only one that doesn't fully say "McConaughy 'Embraces' Donald Trump". believe it or not, the new york times is the most center in this situation (from what i can tell).

but everything this man side is not only relatable and right, but also in no way pledges some kind of allegiance to one side or another. we are in divisive times. we should embrace the current state of things and shake hands with our reality. and in the same vein we can protest for civil liberties just as nearly every generation before us has had to. i support his right to speak this peace and we should all be so lucky as to embrace life such as this.

i criticize a lot of what trump says and does. and i will continue to. i've also tried to spread that criticism over to congress too and there's a lot about republicans' view points that i despise. mostly the part about denial of climate change and ignorance of the importance of social welfare. but i disagree a lot with democrats on the same arguments but for different reasons. because while the progressive side might align in some ways to my political views, the climate change argument coming from democrats is an elitist argument. it makes no true mention of how to help citizens in these dying industries, and the party itself seemingly expects all people to feel fear enough in these environmental threats when most democratic politicians couldn't even describe the greenhouse effect or how the American climate is actually affected. and as for social welfare, democrats and republicans both want an economy that is state-controlled and corporate-focused. that's the source of power for both sides.

right now, the argument as to why democrats are better has been simply that trump is worse. that is a piss poor argument.

the proper group will only align by understanding the nature of the beast. that beast is not trump. that beast is fear.

Link: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/02/movies/matthew-mcconaughey-trump-hollywood-breitbart.html?smid=fb-nytimes&smtyp=cur
