On Clinton

Why am I for Clinton over Trump? In one sentence? Because I am much more against social conservativism than I am for fiscal conservativism.

To expand, economic policy desisions and principles are not binary. A balance is always required to maintain a healthy economy. We need enough regulation that the higher socio-economic class can not take advantage of the lower class as well as we should ensure lower class individuals have the support they need to enter into our economy with confidence. As well, we should ensure we don't overregulate as that could cause markets to stagnate and could reduce the competition necessary to drive up wages and maintain the proper standard of living in our communities.

With social policies, the decision to make is much easier. Ask oneself, does this social behavior negatively affect my community? No? Then it should be accepted. We place too much judgment on the ways others live their lives when there is absolutely no direct effect. We should celebrate differences, not condemn or lambast them. When people make mistakes in morality terms, as many see things like abortion or contraceptives as, we should do less to restrict or force an opinion and do more to offer guidance to the individuals we know and care for. In terms of equality, far too many Republicans preach the word, but when it comes to regulations and legislation that can actually bridge the equality gap in our nation, they run in fear and exaggerate the economic effects of such legislation in order to maintain freer markets.

If I only cared for myself, I'd vote for a completely free market and I would wouldn't really have concern over LGBT or minority rights. I'm a straight, white man from a middle class family with a college tuition paid for by mommy and American history says that I have a pretty good chance of being successful. But I recognize my privelege. And would much rather live in a country where people are lifted up instead of treated as if they should learn their place. 

You could ask, why would I not support someone like Gary Johnson, who is fiscally conservative and socially liberal. 1) Gary Johnson isn't going to be president. The support he has is too little, too late. 2) I would much rather have Hillary than Trump. And as I live in a Republican state, I would much rather give a vote for Hillary than take a vote away just in case Texans decide to think like me.

I won't identify as a Democrat. But as I see this country's direction, I can easily, and proudly, say I identify much MORE as a Democrat than a Republican.
