On Gun Control

From a man who owns an AR-15.

Those who oppose any new forms of gun control oft embody the spirit of our fore fathers when they preach about their right and the right of every American to bear arms. I've read plenty of what our fore fathers wrote during their time. Their understanding of the situation, the conflict with Great Britain, the only way to win a war against an infringing, oppressing ruler, the only way to win independence for the colonies, was to unite against a common enemy, inspire hope that the colonies could gain freedom from British reign, and give them the means to defend themselves once the British come knocking at their door. Our fore fathers saw a very real threat, and they faced it by way of law. Today, we face invisible threats. A threat that quite literally exists only in the mind.

Our fore fathers wrote "the right to bear arms" without three important characteristics of our current nation in mind. 1) Civility, 2) Massive Population ~2.1-2.5 Million (20% under slave rule) in 1770s to ~320 Million in 2010s, 3) The Nuclear Age. The stockpile of weapons that the NRA lobbies for, that the gun lobbyists lobby for can only provide a false sense of security for the average American. Before my lifetime, we created and amassed the second largest arsenal of nuclear weapons that exists on this planet. So large, it can effectively end human civilization. Today, in my lifetime, we sustain it, we modernize it, we spend more now on our nuclear arsenal than we did at the height of the Cold War. In the meantime, we've established ourselves as a global police of sorts, and have become the most powerful country in the world. Now, our fore fathers wrote in our "right to bear arms" for the instance of a government overthrow. But now, in our nuclear age, with such a heightening emphasis (and budget) for national defense, we must recognize that the overthrow of the United States government is an impossibility, even by its citizens, no matter the stockpile of weapons a regulated militia may amass.

A lot of the people that preach a right to bear arms, refuse to define the line between civilian and soldier. There are important parts to that line. 1) Months, if not years, of training with the weapons they use. 2) An understanding of combat procedures, 3) A conditioning to war-like environments. Those are qualities a soldier has, a soldier that carries a weapon of war to protect his or herself. A civilian does not have those qualities taught to them by the American government. We give the rights to citizens to arm themselves with any weapon they choose, but we place no responsibility on the civilian once they have the weapon.

Now we understand as a nation, collectively, the importance of weapons training, the importance of combat training, the importance of conditioning to war-like environments. We understand it, we accept it, we promote it, as one nation, bipartisan, we instill it on each and every soldier in our armed forces. When we talk about whether or not a civilian should have weapon of war, we have to understand the difference between a civilian sheltered from war and a soldier conditioned to war. We have to understand that our civilization is not in war. That our men, women, and children, our modern day Americans, are not in a war. We do not live our day-to-day lives as a soldier would live hers or his.

You should question hard before supporting any American politician that thinks an overthrow of the American government is an effective congressional tool in an informed democracy. If anyone in American politics thinks that an overthrow of the American government by force is a real possibility, they should be removed from office, and we as intelligent Americans should be the ones to call for it. All this thought does is provide a false sense of security to American citizens. The American citizens are not safer with assault rifles.

To end, I live in a world of cold hard facts. And the most important fact to accept is, a gun of any caliber or capacity will not protect you from a tyrannical American government, (only we as a united people can protect ourselves from a tyrannical government) only your mind will. Only by understanding that civility, unity, and intelligence are how we stop radicalism and violence. The argument of an oppressive government belongs in debates of privacy. But not in debates of gun ownership. Because, again, your gun does not protect you from an oppressive government any longer.

We should respect our government, that we have elected by a democratic/republic electoral process, and respect each other as a community that seeks unity and respect from each other, enough to pass gun legislation that can prevent radical minds and violent individuals from getting firearms. We should all save face to the fact that our false sense of security is not worth more than the lives of innocent Americans.

Common sense isn't supporting 240 year old laws without incorporating any modern understanding of them. Common sense is holding a value in our collective intelligence, allowing us to fully understand our environment and incorporate any necessary modifications to ensure the law of the land is the right law for the current landscape.
